# SMA Evaluate Expression

SMA Evaluate Expression (SMAEvalExp.exe) is a utility that accesses
OpCon Property Expressions API. This is the same API accessed by Job
Dependencies and Events Based on Complex Expressions. For more
information, refer to [Property Expressions API Syntax](../../reference/property-expressions-syntax.md)
 in the **Concepts** online help. Primarily, this utility is
maintained for backward compatibility. This utility can be scheduled
from an OpCon Windows job or executed through
a Windows command prompt (cmd.exe).

SMAEvalExp.exe is installed in the <Target
Directory\>\\OpConxps\\MSLSAM\\ directory and connects to the OpCon
database using the .dat file generated by the SMA Connection
Configuration utility. For more information, refer to [SMA Connection Configuration
Tool](../../server-programs/schedule-activity-monitor.md#SMA)
 in the **Server Programs** online help.

Configuring the Database Connection Information

To perform the procedure:

Locate the executable for the SMA Connection Configuration program
(SMAConnectionConfig.exe) in the following location: <Target
Directory\>\\OpConxps\\MSLSAM\\.

:::tip Example
C:\\Program Files\\OpConxps\\MSLSAM\\
:::

Double-click **SMAConnectionConfig.exe**.

In the SMAConnectionConfig window:

Enter the *Server Name* (include the instance name if necessary using
the Server\\Instance Name syntax) in the **Server\\Instance Name**
field.

Enter the *database name* in the **Database Name** field.

Configure the authentication method by:

a.  Selecting the **Use Windows Authentication** checkbox.
b.  Entering *opconsam* in the **Database Login ID** field and entering
    the *password* in the **Database Password** field.

Configure the database connection by selecting one of the following
**Configuration** drop-down options:

a.  **None**: Specifies no setting. This is the default.
b.  **SQL Always On**: Specifies that SQL Server has been configured to
    use SQL high availability.
c.  **SQL Mirroring**: Specifies that SQL Server has been configured to
    use mirroring.

Click **Connect**.

Click **OK** to confirm the connection.

Click **OK** to close the program.

## Syntax

Use the following command-line syntax:

SMAEvalExp.exe "expression"

### Parameters

The following describes the command-line parameters:

- **SMAEvalExp.exe**: This is the executable program installed in the <Target Directory\>\\OpConxps\\MSLSAM\\ directory.
- **Expression**: A logic expression, a numeric expression, or an
    expression to assign a value to an OpCon
    property.
  - Because SMAEvalExp.exe runs as a Windows command-line program
        and accepts only one parameter, the full expression must be
        enclosed in double quotes.
  - If the expression contains embedded tokens, enclose the
        expression within the \[\[=\]\] syntax.     -   For details on defining expressions, refer to [Property
        Expressions API
        Syntax](../../reference/property-expressions-syntax.md)
         in the **Concepts** online help.

### Examples

The following examples use several
[Operators](../../reference/property-expressions-syntax.md#Operator)
 and
[Functions](../../reference/property-expressions-syntax.md#Function)
 along with [System Properties](../../objects/properties.md#system-properties) to show
samples of using the SMA Evaluate Expression program for automation:

- [Check a Property Value for a Specific String](#Check)
- [Check a Property Value for a Specific Number     (Integer)](#Check2)
- [Trigger Events Based the Exit Code of a Job](#Trigger)
- [Trigger Events Based on Specific Exit Codes](#Trigger2)
- [Trigger Events Based on Deviation from Estimated Run     Time](#Trigger3)
- [Set the Value of a Property with an Expression](#Set)
- [Set the Value of a Property Based on the Contents of Other     Properties and/or Constants](#Set2)

#### Check a Property Value for a Specific String

To check a global property to see if its value is equal to a specific
string, use the == operator.

The following expression checks to see if the value of a global property
named "DDIService" is equal to "running":

SMAEvalExp.exe "\[\[=\[\[DDIService\]\]==\"running\"\]\]"

If the result is true, then command will succeed. If the result is
false, the command will fail. If run through an
OpCon job, events can be configured to affect
other jobs and send notifications based on the failure of this job.

#### Check a Property Value for a Specific Number (Integer)

To check a global property to see if its value is equal to a specific
number:

- Use the ToInt function to convert the value of the property to an
    integer.
- Use the == (check equality) operator.

The following expression checks to see if the value of a global property
named "BackupServer" has a value of 1:

SMAEvalExp.exe "\[\[=ToInt(\[\[BackupServer\]\])==1\]\]"

If the result is true, then command will succeed. If the result is
false, the command will fail. If run through an
OpCon job, events can be configured to affect
other jobs and send notifications based on the failure of this job.

#### Trigger Events Based the Exit Code of a Job

To check the exit code of a job to see if it is less than 20:

- Use the ToIntNE function to convert the value of the $JOB
    TERMINATION property to an integer and also set the default value to
    0 in case the job has no termination value.
- Use the < (less than) operator.

The following expression checks to see if the DNSEntries job termination
value is less than 20, with a default result of "True" if the job does
not yet have a termination value:

SMAEvalExp.exe "\[\[=ToIntNE(\[\[JI.$JOB TERMINATION.2013/10/29.BPMNetworkTest.DNSEntries\]\],0)<20\]\]"

If the result is true, then the command will succeed. If the result is
false, the command will fail. If run through an
OpCon job, events can be configured to affect
other jobs and send notifications based on the failure of this job.

#### Trigger Events Based on Specific Exit Codes

To check a job for a specific exit code to take action upon, consider
the following:

**Scenario**: If Windows JobA ever fails with exit code 0000000033, a
job named FixFiles should run to fix the environment then rerun JobA.

**Solution**: To achieve the solution, a job named EvalJobAExit will
execute SMAEvalExp.exe after every time JobA runs to check the exit code
from JobA.

- Create the EvalJobAExit job on the same schedule as JobA.
- Configure EvalJobAExit job to succeed unless the exit code
    is 0000000033. The command line for EvalJobAExit is:
- Configure a $JOB:ADD event for EvalJobAExit on failure to add the
    FixFiles job to the schedule.

#### Trigger Events Based on Deviation from Estimated Run Time

To trigger events based on the Actual Run Time of a job deviating from
the Estimated Run Time by a user-defined percentage, there are a number
of potential scenarios:

- The job runs for less than the estimated run time minus the
    deviation percent.
- The job runs for longer than the estimated run time plus the
    deviation percent. Two scenarios exist for this idea:
  - Wait until the 'monitored job' finishes and then run the
        SMAEvalExp job to determine if the 'monitored job' ran long.
  - Trigger the event as soon as the 'monitored job' exceeds the
        'acceptable threshold', in this case based on a calculated
        time based on Estimated Run Time plus a percentage.

##### Trigger Events Based on a Job Running for Less Time than Expected

To trigger events after job completion if a job's run time is less the
estimated run time by a percentage, use SMAEvalExp.exe to check the time
difference between a job's actual run time and a specific number.

- Assume the job in question is named JobA.
- If the requirement is to check for the job running less than 5
    minutes:
  - On the same schedule as JobA, create an SMAEvalExp job as a
        subsequent job to JobA on the same schedule.
  - After JobA completes, run the SMAEvalExp job with the following
        command line:

SMAEvalExp.exe will return an exit code of 0 if JobA ran for 5 minutes
or more, or it will return an exit code of -1 if JobA ran for less than
5 minutes. When the SMAEvalExp job fails, Events can be configured to
affect other jobs and send notifications based on the failure of this
job.

- If JobA ran for more 5 minutes or more, the job will succeed because
    the result is "True".
- If JobA ran for less than 5 minutes, the command will fail because
    the result is "False".
- When the SMAEvalExp job fails, Events can be configured to affect
    other jobs and send notifications based on the failure of this job.

##### Trigger Events after Job Completion if a Job's Run Time Exceeds the Estimated Run Time by a User-defined Percentage

To trigger events after job completion if a job's run time exceeds the
estimated run time by a percentage, use SMAEvalExp.exe to check the time
difference between a job's actual run time and its estimated run time.

- Assume the job in question is named JobA.
- If the requirement is to check for a deviation of more than 10%,
    then:
  - On the same schedule as JobA, create an SMAEvalExp job as a
        subsequent job to JobA on the same schedule.
  - After JobA completes, run the SMAEvalExp job with the following
        command line:
- This expression checks the time difference between JobA's actual
    run time and its estimated run time.
- If the calculated percent is less than or equal to 10, the job will
    succeed because the result is "True".
- If the calculated percent is greater than 10, the command will fail
    because the result is "False".
- When the SMAEvalExp job fails, Events can be configured to affect
    other jobs and send notifications based on the failure of this job.

#### Set the Value of a Property with an Expression

To set the value of a property using an expression to calculate the
value:

- Use the ToInt function DiskSpace property in the calculation to
    change the value to an integers.
- Use the = (assignment) operator.

The following expression sets the value of a global property named
"Available" to the result of an arithmetic expression that includes a
value from a Machine Instance property named "DiskSpace":

SMAEvalExp.exe "\[\[=\[\[Available\]\]=(25/4 + 84.56 - ToInt(\[\[MI.DiskSpace.MachName\]\]))\]\]"

If the result is true, then command will succeed. If the result is
false, the command will fail. If run through an
OpCon job, Events can be configured to affect
other jobs and send notifications based on the failure of this job.

#### Set the Value of a Property Based on the Contents of Other Properties and/or Constants

To set the value of a property using an expression involving other
properties to calculate the value:

- Use the ToInt function properties in the calculation to change their
    values to integers.
- Use the = (assignment) operator.

The following calculates a User Property named "Target" based on a
computation involving two other User Defined Properties and a constant:

SMAEvalExp.exe "\[\[=\[\[Target\]\] =(ToInt(\[\[Source1\]\])-ToInt(\[\[Source2\]\]))/8\]\]"

If "Source1" has a value of 85 and "Source2" has a value of 21,
SMAEvalExp.exe will return an exit code of 0 and set the value of
"Target" to a value of 8 (i.e., (85-21)/8 is equal to a value of 8).

## Logging

The SMA Evaluate Expression utility writes any logging related
information to the standard Job Output. SMA Technologies recommends configuring the Windows
LSAM to capture the job output so you can easily use the View Job Output
feature from the Enterprise Manager. For more information, refer to [Job Output
Retrieval](https://help.smatechnologies.com/opcon/agents/windows/latest/Files/Agents/Microsoft/Job-Output-Retrieval.md)
 in the **Microsoft LSAM** online help and [Viewing Job Output](../../Files/UI/Enterprise-Manager/Performing-Job-Procedures-List.md#Viewing)
 in the **Enterprise Manager** online help.

## Exit Codes

|Exit Code|Description|
|--- |--- |
|0|Expression evaluation succeeded. The result is included in the Job Output.|
|-1|Expression evaluation failed. The error detail is included in the Job Output.|
